---
title: In search of Scotch and the Loch Ness Monster
location: Scotland / Dublin, Ireland
---

Itching to get out of town and go on an epic adventure this spring, Alex and I
decided on a grand tour of Scotland. After researching flights, we discovered
for slightly _less_ money, we could also pull off a weekend in Dublin by flying
there to/from the US and catching economy carriers to/from Edinburgh.

## So, about the dinosaurs

A friend of mind found a post online, ["Travel photos are instantly better with
Dinosaur toys"](http://imgur.com/gallery/6Faib). So we gave it a shot. Her
photos of the dinosaurs are better than mine, though. I suppose the surrealism
in the shared post could also be achieved with some aggressive Photoshop work.

We learned that camera phones are surprisingly competent at this task. The
dinosaur photos work best when the toy and the background are both in-focus
because it makes them look like they're on the same scale. With such small
sensors, the camera phone apertures are smaller, yielding a deeper depth of
field. So after hours of trying to get the composition I wanted, I landed on
using my Nexus 5X's built-in camera or the fisheye lens on the Nikon for the
better shots. It was a fun travel challenge.

### Scotland

#### AUS --> IAD --> DUB --> EDI

{% include photo.html src="DSC_2510.jpg" %}

We flew overnight from Austin and made it to Edinburgh by the next afternoon and
explored the city that evening before setting out the next day on our adventure.

#### [Cairngorms National Park](http://cairngorms.co.uk/), [RZSS Highland Wildlife Park](http://www.highlandwildlifepark.org.uk/), and Craigellachie ("creg-AL-eh-hee")

The national park service of Scotland is actually quite new; this is the second
park of its kind and was established in 2003. We drove through it on the way up
from Edinburgh to Craigellachie and made a few stops to wander around.

Craigellachie is a quaint little town along the river Spey: the river from which
most highland Scotch flows. We toured The Macallan Distillery, a family
favorite, but Craigellachie Distillery, Glenfiddich, Aberlour, and The Balvenie
were all within a few miles.

The next morning, we drove back to the Wildlife Park in the Cairngorms. It has a
long walking trail along large habitats and a drive loop through a few more
around the edge of the park.

#### Drumnadrochit, Loch Ness, and the Urquhart Castle

On our way from Highland Scotch paradise over to our next destination on the
Isle of Skye, we felt compelled to make a stop at Loch Ness. Approaching the
town of Drumnadrochit, the tourism industry is outlandishly self-evident. We
arrived after the castle ruins closed, so we took a few dinosaur photos from the
overlook before heading on.

{% include photo.html src="DSCF4274.jpg" %}

We spent the rest of the evening driving straight across Scotland through a very
rural area via the A87. We crossed the bridge only the Isle of Skye right around
sunset and headed on to our hostel in Portnalong. What I hadn't expected was the
size and rural atmosphere of Skye: I had expected a "Galveston," in that the
city would be the most significant presence on the island and there may be a few
small neighborhoods or towns on the fringes. Skye is massive and even its
largest city of Portree is only home to about 4,000 people. It is a vast mesh of
tiny villages is connected by one-lane roads with spectacular nature between.

{% include photo.html src="DSC_3517.jpg" %}

We made a circuit around the island, stopping at the abandoned
[Neist Point Lighthouse](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Neist_Point_Lighthouse),
the Fairy Glen in Uig (with beer from the nearby Skye Brewery), the Kilt Rock
waterfall, the Old Man of Storr, and the city of Portree for dinner.

{% include photo.html src="DSC_3833.jpg" %}

#### Fort William

The following morning, we drove to the south end of Skye to see the (@TODO: the
what was that called again?) before catching the Armadale-Mallaig ferry back to
the mainland. On the drive over to Fort William, we stopped to get a look at the
[Glenfinnan Viaduct](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Glenfinnan_Viaduct), known
world-over as "the bridge to Hogwarts."

{% include photo.html src="DSC_4116.jpg" %}

On our final morning in Scotland, we went to the Glen Nevis waterfall outside
Fort William. I may or may not have fallen in the river in a quest for the
perfect photo of this beast of a waterfall, but it was worth it. After, I threw
my boots in the trunk and we started a long scenic drive back toward the airport
in Edinburgh which ended with a frantic adventure making a U-turn around a five
lane roundabout.

## Dublin

We spent the final Friday night through early Monday morning kickin' around
Dublin. A beatiful city with lovely people, great food, and lots of history. We
were there on the 100th anniversary of the Easter Rising (100 years to the day;
the celebration had already happened on _Easter_ itself a few weeks ago). We
toured Dublin Castle, the Guinness James Gate Brewery, churches, parks, and
anywhere else we could get on for the rest of the weekend.
