---
title: SANDCamp 2017
location: San Diego, California
---

Not my usual run to San Diego this time. After SANDCamp ended, I took Sunday to
mostly explore on my own. I drove south on Point Loma down to the Cabrillo
National Monument, but found the Fort Rosecrans National Cemetery first. It
stretched a great distance down the point along both sides of the road,
seemingly endless hills of memorials and grave sites.

Cabrillo was beautiful. Follow the access road downhill immediately past the
entrance for the "Tide Pools," but the cooler areas are further down the road
than the first parking area. Ultimately, most of it connects with walking
trails.

After a quick trip up north to the rocky beaches of La Jolla, I turned around
and headed south toward Border Fields State Park at the south end of I-5. I
didn't realize the road would be flooded, so the walk to International
Friendship Park ended up being about 2 miles each way, some of it through the
overflowing Tijuana river.

Along the beach, visitors on both sides of the border can walk up to the fence
itself, though signage seems to indicate that's discouraged if Border Patrol
thinks you look suspicious. Back up the hill, we've built a second fence about
30 feet back from the original fence. For four hours, twice per weekend, the
outer fence gate opens and under the watchful eye of several Border Patrol
agents, guests are able to walk up to the fence. I don't know if it is a regular
occurrence or if this was a special day, but there were gentlemen on each side
with a makeshift PA hosting a gathering.

I showed up only minutes before it ended, but I heard folks telling stories of
their struggles and dreams. Others asked immigration questions or sought
resources for their visa issues. Families on both sides had been separated and
were trying to reunite, a few didn't even seem to care which side they reunited
on, as long as they could be together again. Further from the talkative
gathering, there was a couple, separated by the fence, in dilapidated porch
chairs whispering to each other like it was the only opportunity for personal
contact they had. On the other end, there were two young people whispering to an
older woman on the other side. The gathering ended with a bilingual prayer as
everyone put their hands on the fence.

As a generally reserved individual, cameras offer a useful instrument of
detatchment from events like this. Then a small boy walked up on the other side
of the fence and reached up in my direction. Who was being kept from him?
