---
title: Columbia River Gorge
location: Washington and Oregon
---

After yet another workshop in Portland, I headed east since I did the coast
[last time]({% post_url 2014-09-27-SO %}). Unfortunately, the Eagle Creek Fire
has closed most of the Oregon-side of the Columbia River Gorge trails and
waterfalls, so most of my original plans were up in, pardon the pun, smoke.

{% include photo.html src="DSC_5663.jpg" %}

I started on the Washington side at Beacon Rock State Park, stopped over by the
Bridge of the Gods, and then drove up into the Gifford Pinchot National Forest
for Panther Creek Falls and what turned out to be a little off-roading around
the forest before heading back down.

{% include photo.html src="DSC_5873.jpg" %}

That night, I stayed in Hood River, Oregon on the other side of the historic
Hood River Bridge. The following morning, I hiked up a trail behind Mosier,
Oregon before heading back to the airport. I was surprised at how this
impressive but easy hike with a giant waterfall and beautiful vista was tucked
away behind this little town, drawing no attention to itself, without even a
marker for the trailhead.

{% include photo.html src="DSC_6024.jpg" %}

Along I-84 back toward PDX, most trails were closed, including the Multnomah
Falls area, so I took a couple photos from the parking and rest stop area before
getting back on the freeway.

{% include photo.html src="DSC_6119.jpg" %}

Hopefully next time I'm up this way, fire restoration will be in a better state
and I'll be able to check out more of what Oregon has hiding away along this
serene riverfront. It's a tragedy that so much of this area burned, and that
very little of it made the news because the rest of the country was focused on
the California fires. But from the highway, you'd hardly know it with most of
the mountainside as green as Oregon has led me to expect, peppered with crystal
flowing waterfalls deep inside the trees.
